\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename touchgui.info
@set version-touchgui     1.0
@set version-update  2019-01-03
@settitle GNU Touchgui @value{version-touchgui}
@c %**end of header

@titlepage
@sp 10
@center @titlefont{Pygame Touchgui}
@sp 10
@center @titlefont{touchgui-@value{version-touchgui}}
@c

@page
@setchapternewpage odd
@sp 2
@center Gaius Mulley
@sp 3
@center Last updated @value{version-update}

@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with the Front-Cover Texts being ``A GNU Manual,''
and with the Back-Cover Texts as in (a) below.  A copy of the
license is included in the section entitled ``GNU Free Documentation
License.''

(a) The FSF's Back-Cover Text is: ``You have freedom to copy and modify
this GNU Manual, like GNU software.  Copies published by the Free
Software Foundation raise funds for GNU development.''
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifinfo
@node Top, , (dir), (dir)
@top GNU Touchgui
@end ifinfo

@menu
* About:: What is GNU Touchgui.
* Obtaining:: Obtaining GNU Touchgui.
* Dependencies:: Package dependencies.
@c * Installing:: Installing Touchgui.
* Building:: Building and configuring Touchgui.
* Examples:: Examples using Touchgui.
* Licence:: Licence of GNU Touchgui.
* GNU Project:: The GNU Project and GNU/Linux.
* Module:: Python API for Touchgui.
* Libraries::Python API for Touchgui.
* Indices:: Content and API indices.
@end menu

@menu
* News:: News.
* Development:: Development.
* Community:: Community.
@end menu

@node News, Development, , (dir)
@chapter News

No news is good news.

@node Development, Community, News, (dir)
@section Development

If you are interesting in contributing please contact
@email{gaius.mulley@@southwales.ac.uk}.

@node Community, , Development, (dir)


@node About, Obtaining, (dir), (dir)
@chapter About Touchgui

Touchgui is a simple tablet based gui for Python/Pygame.  It allows
tiles to be created from images, colours or glyphs.  Each tile has a
number of callbacks which are called whenever a tap or double tap
occurs.

A tile maybe in one of the following four states: images for the tile
when in the frozen, active, activated or pressed state.  The frozen
state is when the tile cannot be pressed (the application might choose
to disable the tile).  The active state is when the tile can be
pressed by the user.  The activated state is when the mouse pointer is
hovering over the tile (but not pressed).  Finally the pressed state
is when the button is tapped.

@node Obtaining, Building, About, (dir)
@chapter Obtaining Touchgui

Assuming that you are using Debian Stretch you could obtain @file{touchgui}
adding these entries to your @file{/etc/apt/sources.list}.

@example

deb http://floppsie.comp.glam.ac.uk/debian/ stretch main
deb-src http://floppsie.comp.glam.ac.uk/debian/ stretch main
@end example

Now they can be installed by using the following commands:

@example
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt upgrade
$ sudo apt install touchgui
@end example

@node Dependencies, Building, Obtaining, (dir)
@section Dependencies

Touchgui requires the following packages to be installed:
@file{automake},
@file{autoconf},
@file{autotools-dev},
@file{python},
@file{python-pygame},
and
@file{texinfo}.

@footnote{
You do not need
to perform any of these commands if you are using Touchgui in a laboratory
at the University of Southwales.
}

@node Building, Examples, Dependencies, (dir)

@chapter Building from source

You can download a copy Touchgui github
@uref{https://github.com/gaiusm/touchgui} using the following commands.

@example
$ git clone https://github.com/gaiusm/touchgui
@end example

You can configure Touchgui by:

@example
$ mkdir -p build-touchgui
$ cd build-touchgui
$ ../touchgui/configure
@end example

and @file{touchgui} can be built by typing:

@example
$ make
@end example

@node Examples, Licence, News, (dir)
@chapter Examples

The example source code can be found under @file{touchgui/examples}.

@include examples/singleimage/README.texi
@include examples/singleglyph/README.texi
@include examples/touchmany/README.texi

@node Licence, GNU Project, Examples, (dir)

@section GPL-3.0
@include gpl-3.0.texi


@node GNU Project, Using, Licence, (dir)

@c @include gnu.texi

@node Using, Module, GNU Project, (dir)
@chapter Using Python and Touchgui

Once touchgui has been installed you can import the python module
@code{touchgui} and utilise it in your code.

@node Module, Libraries, Using, (dir)

@page
@section Touchgui Python API
@include touchgui-api.texi

@node Libraries, Indices, Module, (dir)
@section Libraries

@ifhtml
@menu
* Methods::  Methods and classes.
@end menu
@end ifhtml

@node Indices, , Module, (dir)
@section Indices

@ifhtml
@menu
* Contents::   Section and subsections.
* Methods::  Methods and classes.
@end menu

@node Contents, Methods, ,
@section Section and subsections
@printindex cp

@node Methods, , Contents,
@section Methods and classes.
@end ifhtml

@printindex fn

@summarycontents
@contents
@bye
